I don't...

# Title: A Month After Entry into Training

## Category:

## Tag:

- Personal Experience

I don't...

I've been on the job for over a month, and I've never worked in a firm before, so I'm kind of new to a lot of things. The transition from school to the workplace has brought about a shift in roles, with differences varying from person to person. For me, what is taught in the classroom by a teacher during school is accepted on a selective basis, even if you do not want to attend many courses. It's not the same when you get to the company; you have to learn your skills whether you want to or not. In school, most people are programmed for the purpose of passing a test or finding a good job, and very few are actually supported by their own interests. When we get to work, we do so more because of job demands, which are generally more challenging and stressful than at school. When we're at school, the most important thing is to be responsible for ourselves, and we keep learning to arm ourselves, but when we get to the company, we have to be responsible not just for ourselves, but for the company, which is paying you to come, not to be on the beach.

When I first came to the company, I switched to a Mac computer because of company demands. I used to work with the Windows system, so I'm not very familiar with it. When you start using the Mac system, you're clumsy, and you clearly feel at least 30% less efficient. It was not easy at the time to complain about why Windows or Linux systems were not used. But it's kind of strange; about a week later, I'm starting to get used to Mac programming, and I like it very much. I don't want to compare Mac and Windows programming to see which is better, but I think it's different for people, and the configuration of a Mac at the same price is a few blocks away. However, Mac does provide a good programming and user experience, and of course, you can choose to use Linux for day-to-day development, and I'm sure it'll be great. Also, Mac can't play some mainstream online games, which is a good choice for some friends who can't help themselves.

I have to say, the training mechanisms at ThoughtWorks are very good. Training is usually arranged after the admission of a student, and unlike in previous years, this year there are more local Chinese courses (TWU-C). As a first-class student in the local class, it's good to say. In addition to the basic skills that work requires, e.g., ES6, SpringBoot, etc., there is some new staff training in basic skills, e.g., how to meet efficiently, how to give and receive feedback, how to reassemble code, how to do TDD, etc. There are occasional activities during training, such as Weekend Trips, City Tours, Cake time, etc. There will be a practical simulation project in the last three weeks, which is essentially the same as the actual project of our official work, and I personally feel very good about it. Now that this project has formally completed an iterative period, I think that in doing the project, the greatest gain is not the technology used in the project, but how to work together as a team, how to use Git to develop it properly, what an iteration looks like, what problems may be encountered in doing the project, and the complete process of running a project, etc.

ThoughtWorks is very much an advocate of sharing and helping others grow, and this is very touching during the company's time. During the training, each of us will have a Trainer, who will be our daily co-worker for classes and projects, and a Trainer who will probably be responsible for 5-6 people. The Trainer doesn't always give us updates on what we've been doing recently. Personally, I don't think this is a formality. The Trainer is responsible, and he talks to us after work. My colleagues are also very keen, and if you have problems, you can ask someone; if they know, they usually tell you without any reservation, and if you have most of the problems that you don't understand, they even organize a technical session for sharing. Last Friday, I had a technology-sharing meeting within our team on Feign remote calls, because there's not much knowledge about this in the team, but it's probably going to be used in the next project. I have just studied this part and shared it with other colleagues in the group to facilitate the better running of the project.

Moreover, ThoughtWorks is also a company that promotes a feedback culture by telling people how we see their performance and how they should do it better. At first, I didn't care too much, but slowly I felt that it would be very helpful for others to receive the right feedback. Because when people do a lot of things, it's hard to find small problems that others can easily see. Just like an interesting phenomenon: if we didn't test the role when we were doing the project, if you
