I don't...
title: JWT Basic Concept Detail
Category: System design
Tag:
- Clear.
I don't...

@include: @article-header.snippet.md--

What's JWT?

JWT (JSON Web Token) is the most popular cross-domain authentication solution and a token-based authentication authorization mechanism. From the full name of JWT, it can be seen that JWT itself is also a token, a formalized JSON structure of a token.

JWT itself contains all the information required for authentication, so our server does not need to store session information. This clearly increases the availability and flexibility of the system and significantly reduces the pressure on the service side.

As can be seen, **JWT is more in line with the "Stateless" principle when designing RESTful APIs**.

Moreover, the use of JWT authentication effectively avoids CSRF attacks, as JWT generally exists in localStorage, and cookies are not involved in the process of using JWT for authentication.

The advantages and disadvantages of using JWT as an identity are described in detail in my article [JWT Analysis of Strengths and Advantages-and-Disadvantages-of-jwt.md].

Below is a more formal definition of JWT.

> JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. The claims in a JWT are encoded as a JSON object that is used as the payload of a JSON Web Signature (JWS) structure or as the plaintext of a JSON Web Encryption (JWE) structure, enabling the claims to be digitally signed or integrity protected with a Message Authentication Code (MAC) and/or encrypted. - [JSON Web Protocol]

What's JWT made up of?

(https://oss.javaguide.cn/javaguide/system-design/jwt/jwt-composition.png)

JWT is essentially a string that consists of three Base64-encoded parts separated by (`.`):

- **Header**: Description of metadata for JWT, definition of algorithms for signature generation and type of token. The header is encoded in Base64Url and becomes part one of JWT.
- **Payload**: Used to store data actually required for transmission, containing statements (claims), such as `sub` (subject), `jti` (JWT ID). The payload is encoded in Base64Url and becomes part two of JWT.
- **Signature**: Generated by the server through the payload, header, and a key (secret) using the signing algorithm specified in the header (default HMAC SHA256). The resulting signature will become part three of JWT.

JWT is usually `xxxx.yyy.zzzzz`.

Example:

```
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.
W W . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
SflKxwRSMeKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POK6yJV_adQssw5c
```

You can decode its JWT on this website, which shows the three parts of the header, payload, and signature.

Header and payload are data in JSON format, while the signature is obtained by combining the payload, header, and secret (key) through specific formulas and encryption algorithms.

(https://oss.javaguide.cn/javaguide/system-design/jwt/jwt.io.png)

# Header

The header usually consists of two parts:

- `typ` (Type): The type of token, which is JWT.
- `alg` (Algorithm): Signing algorithms such as HS256.

Example:

```json
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}
```

The JSON format header is converted to Base64 code and becomes the first part of JWT.

# Payload

The payload is also JSON format data, which contains claims (declarations containing relevant information about JWT).

Claims are divided into three types:

- **Registered Claims**: Some predefined claims recommended for use, but not mandatory.
- **Public Claims**: JWT issuers can define claims, but in order to avoid conflict, they should be defined in [IANA JSON Web Token Registry](https://www.iana.org/assignments/jwt/jwt.xhtml).
- **Private Claims**: JWT issuer's self-defined claims based on project needs that are more in line with the actual project scenario.

The following are common registered claims:

- `iss` (issuer): Issuer of JWT.
- `iat` (issued at time): JWT issuance time.
- `sub` (subject): JWT subject.
- `aud` (audience): JWT receiver.
- `exp` (expiration time): Expiration of JWT.
- `nbf` (not before time): JWT is effective at an earlier time than the definition, and JWT cannot be processed.
- `jti` (JWT ID): JWT unique identifier.

Example:

```json
{
  "uid": "ff122f5-d8d1-4496-bf41-d2dda73