I don't...
Title: MongoDB Common Interview Summary (under)
Category: Database
Tag:

- NoSQL
- MongoDB
  I don't...

# MongoDB Index

What's the MongoDB index for?

Similar to the relational database, there are indices in MongoDB. The index is primarily intended to increase the efficiency of queries, and in the absence of an index, MongoDB must perform a **Pool Scan**, i.e., scan each document in the pool to select a document that matches the query statement. If a query exists for a suitable index, MongoDB can use it to limit the number of documents it must check. And MongoDB can use the sorting in the index to return the sorted result.

While indexing can significantly shorten the search time, there is a cost in using the index and maintaining it. When performing the writing operation, the index must be updated in addition to the document, which necessarily affects the ability to write. Therefore, indexing is not recommended when there is a large number of writing operations and reading operations are less, or when the reading performance is not considered.

What type of index does MongoDB support?

**MongoDB supports various types of index, including single field index, composite index, multikey index, hash index, text index, geographic index, etc. Each type of index is used in different contexts.**

- **System Index:** System based on a single field, which does not matter in the order in which the index is created; MongoDB can start all over head/tail.
- **Composite Index:** Index based on multiple fields, also known as a combination index or joint index.
- **Multikey Index:** One field of MongoDB may be an array, which is a multikey index when creating an index for this field. MongoDB will create an index for each value in the array. That means you can check according to the values in the array, and it's still going to be indexed.
- **Hash Index:** Hash index by data, on hash sub-cluster.
- **Text Index:** Supports text search queries on string content. Text index can contain any field with values that are a string or a string element array. Only one text search index can be found in a collection, but the index can cover more than one field. MongoDB, while supporting the full-text index, has low performance and is not recommended for the time being.
- **Geographical Index:** Index based on longitude, suitable for 2D and 3D locations.
- **Unique Index:** Ensure that index fields do not store duplicate values. Creating the unique index in the background will fail if the only document that violates the index already exists.
- **TTL Index:** The TTL Index provides an expiration mechanism that allows an expiry time for each document to be set and is deleted when a document reaches the predefined expiry time.
- ...

Does the order of fields in the composite index have an impact?

The order of the fields in the composite index is very important. For example, the composite index in the figure below is composed of `{userid: 1, score: -1}`; the composite index is first sorted according to `userid` ascending; then within each `userid` value, it is sorted according to `score` descending order.

[Composite Index](https://oss.javaguide.cn/github/javaguide/database/mongodb/mongodb-composite-index.png)

In a composite index, the way in which it is sorted determines whether it can be applied in a query.

Sort by composite index:

```sql
db.s2.find().sort()
```

Sort without composite index:

```sql
db.s2.find().sort()
db.s2.find().sort()
db.s2.find().sort()
db.s2.find().sort()
db.s2.find().sort()
db.s2.find().sort()
```

We can analyze through explain:

```sql
db.s2.find().sort().explain()
```

# Composite index following the left prefix principle?

**MongoDB's composite index follows the principle of left prefix**: Index with multiple keys is available for indexing the prefix composition of all these keys at the same time, excluding subsets other than the left prefix. For example, there is a series of indices like `a: 1, b: 1, c: 1, z: 1`, etc.

What's the TTL index?

The TTL index provides an expiration mechanism that allows the setting of an expiry time for each document `expireAfterSeconds`, which is deleted when a document reaches the preset expiry time. TTL Index, except for the `expireAfterSeconds` properties, is the same as the normal index.

Expiry of data is useful for certain types of information, such as event data, logs, and session information generated by machines, which require only limited time to be stored in the database.

**TTL Index Operating Principle**:

- MongoDB will open a background thread to read the TTL index to determine whether the document is expired, but there will be no guarantee that the expired data will be deleted immediately, because
