I don't...
type: file structure details
Category:
Tag:

- JVM.
  I don't...

# Reread the byte code

In Java, the JVM can understand the code as `byte code` (i.e. an extended file called `.class`), which is not for any particular processor, but for virtual machines. The Java language addresses, to some extent, the inefficient implementation of traditional interpretative languages by byte, while retaining the characteristic of interpretative language portability. As a result, the Java program runs more efficiently, and since the byte code does not target a particular machine, the Java program can be run on computers with many different operating systems without having to recompile.

The languages of Clojure (a dialect of Lisp), Groovy, Scala, JRuby, and Kotlin are all on the Java Virtual Machine. The graph below shows that different languages were compiled by different compilers and translated into `.class` documents and eventually operated on the Java Virtual Machine. The binary format of the `.class` file is available in [WinHex](https://www.x-ways.net/winhex/).

(https://oss.javaguide.cn/github/javaguide/java/basis/java-virtual-machine-program-language-os.png)

The `.class` document can be said to be an important bridge between different languages on the Java Virtual Machine and an important reason for supporting Java across platforms.

# Class Document Structure Summary

According to Java Virtual Machine Code, the Class file is defined as `ClassFile` in a somewhat C-language structure.

`ClassFile` is structured as follows:

```Java
ClassFile
u4 magic; //Class
u2 min_version; //Class
u2 major_version; //Class
u2 constant_pool_count; //number of constant pools
cp_info constant_pool[constant_pool_count - 1]; //constant pool
u2 access_flags; //Class
u2 this_class; //current class
u2 super_class; //parent class
u2 interfaces_count; //number of interfaces
u2 interfaces[interfaces_count]; //Category
u2 fields_count; //number of fields
Field_info fields[fields_count]; //Category can have multiple fields
u2 methods_count; //number of methods
Method_info methods[methods_count]; //Category can have more than one method
u2 attributes_count; //Number of properties in the attribute table
Attribute_info attributes[attributes_count]; //attribute table collection
```

By analyzing the content of `ClassFile`, we can see the composition of the class file.

[ClassFile Content Analysis](https://oss.javaguide.cn/java-guide-blog/16d5ec47609818fc.jpeg)

The following figure is viewed through the IDEA plugin `jclasslib`, and you can view the Class file structure more directly.

(https://oss.javaguide.cn/java-guide-blog/image-202104011715.png)

Using `jclasslib` allows you to view not only the byte file of a given category intuitively but also basic information about the class, constant pool, interfaces, properties, functions, etc.

Some of the components involved in the Class document structure are described in detail below.

Magic Number

```Java
u4 magic; //Class
```

The first four bytes of each Class file are called the Magic Number, and its only function is to determine **whether this document is a Class file that can be received by a virtual machine**. Java Regulation provides that the magic number is fixed: 0xCAFEBABE. If the read file does not begin with this magic number, the Java Virtual Machine will refuse to load it.

## Class file number (Minor & Major Version)

```Java
u2 min_version; //Class
u2 major_version; //Class
```

The four bytes immediately after the magic number are the version numbers of the Class file: 5 and 6 are **sub-versions**, 7 and 8 are **main versions**.

Whenever Java publishes a large version (e.g. Java 8, Java 9), the main version is incremented by one. You can quickly view the version number of the Class file using the `javap -v` command.

A high-quality Java Virtual Machine can execute a Class file generated by a low-end compiler, but a low-end Java Virtual Machine cannot execute a Class file generated by a high-end compiler. So when we actually do it, we make sure that the JDK version is consistent with the JDK version of the production environment.

## Constant Pool

```Java
u2 constant_pool_count; //number of constant pools
cp_info constant_pool[constant_pool_count - 1]; //constant pool
```

Next to the main sub-version number is the constant pool, the number of which is `constant_pool_count - 1` (**constant pool counters are counted from 1 onwards; the index value 0 means “no constant pool item quoted”**).

The constants are mainly stored in two main forms: literal and symbolic references
