---
title: Key Summary for Java Backend Interviews
category: Interview Preparation
icon: star
---

::: tip Friendly Reminder
This article is excerpted from **[“Java Interview Guide”](../zhuanlan/java-mian-shi-zhi-bei.md)**. It is a column that teaches you how to prepare for interviews more efficiently, complementing the content in JavaGuide by covering common topics (system design, common frameworks, distributed systems, high concurrency, etc.) and high-quality interview experiences.
:::

## What Key Knowledge Points Should Be Focused on for Java Backend Interviews?

**When preparing for interviews, which specific knowledge points should be the focus? How can you grasp these key points?**

Here are some reliable suggestions:

1. The essential knowledge points for Java backend development include Java basics, collections, concurrency, MySQL, Redis, Spring, and Spring Boot (MySQL + Redis >= Java > Spring + Spring Boot). These are the areas that are frequently asked about in interviews at both large and small companies. The knowledge points for Spring and Spring Boot are relatively less important than the aforementioned points, but they are still commonly asked, especially at smaller firms. Questions about concurrency are generally more challenging and frequent at medium to large companies, particularly as larger firms like to delve into the underlying principles, which can easily stump candidates. Topics related to computer fundamentals will be mentioned below.
1. Knowledge points related to your project experience are extremely important; competent interviewers will base their questions on your project background. For example, if your project experience includes using Redis for rate limiting, you should pay extra attention to Redis-related knowledge (such as common data structures in Redis) and rate-limiting-related topics (like common algorithms for rate limiting)! After mastering the knowledge points from your project experience, focus on thoroughly understanding the technologies you’ve listed as proficient on your resume, and then spend time preparing other knowledge points.
1. You can adjust the focus of your review according to your job-seeking needs. Generally, small to medium firms ask fewer questions about computer fundamentals, while some large companies, like ByteDance, place a heavier emphasis on computer fundamentals, especially algorithms. Therefore, if you are targeting small to medium firms, preparing for computer fundamentals might not be as crucial for the interview. If your review time is limited, you can temporarily set those aside and allocate time to other important knowledge points.
1. Typically, companies hiring fresh graduates do not strictly require knowledge of distributed systems/microservices or high concurrency (with some specific positions possibly having this hard requirement). Whether or not to master these topics depends on your current situation. If you are knowledgeable in these areas, it can certainly benefit your interview (to make your project experience stand out, you need some performance optimization knowledge, which can be considered a small branch of high concurrency expertise). If your skills or project experience involve distributed systems/microservices or high concurrency, it's advisable to take time to prepare this knowledge seriously, as you are likely to be questioned about it during the interview, particularly when discussing your project experience. However, focus mainly on the knowledge points listed on your resume.
1. Knowledge related to the JVM is typically asked about only by large companies (like Meituan, Alibaba) and some decent medium-sized firms (like Ctrip, SF Express, and China Merchants Bank's Network). If you're interviewing at state-owned enterprises, less competitive medium-sized firms, or small companies, there’s generally no need to prepare for this. Commonly asked topics related to the JVM include [Java Memory Areas](https://javaguide.cn/java/jvm/memory-area.html), [JVM Garbage Collection](https://javaguide.cn/java/jvm/jvm-garbage-collection.html), [Class Loaders and the Parent Delegation Model](https://javaguide.cn/java/jvm/classloader.html), and JVM tuning and troubleshooting (I've previously shared some [common online issue cases](https://t.zsxq.com/0bsAac47U) that include JVM-related content).
1. Different large companies will have different interview focuses. For instance, if you are interviewing at a company like Alibaba, the focus will be on projects and common interview topics. Alibaba’s written test generally includes coding questions, and during the interview, there’s seldom coding-related questioning, but they tend to ask deep theoretical questions and often inquire about your thoughts on technology. In contrast, if you are interviewing at ByteDance, computer fundamentals, especially algorithms, will be the focus; their interviews are quite stringent about coding skills, and they might start right off with a coding question before discussing anything else. They also ask about common interview topics and your projects, though significantly less. I recommend reading this article [To Uncover the Inside Story of Autumn Recruitment in Internet Giants, I Reviewed Them All](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/pBsGQNxvRupZeWt4qZReIA) to understand the common interview question focuses of major companies.
1. Look for interview experiences, especially those related to the target company or similar companies for your desired position. This can help you review specific topics and also serve as a self-test to check your grasp of the material.

While it seems there is a lot of common knowledge for Java backend interviews, narrowing your focus reveals that the important material is just that. Given time constraints, there's no need to prepare for some less common knowledge points. Concentrate your energy on the key areas.

## How to Prepare for Common Topics More Efficiently?

For technical common topics, try to avoid rote memorization, as this approach is very tedious and offers limited enhancement to your skills! However, expecting to remember nothing at all is unrealistic; rather, aim to understand and memorize through practical application contexts.

I believe the best way to approach interview common topics is to integrate them with real-world application scenarios and practice. Many students are currently heading in the wrong direction, directly memorizing topics instead of mixing in practical applications, making it feel very dull.

For example: Your project requires using Redis for caching. After simply consulting the official website to understand and practice basic Redis usage, you proceed to review the related common topics. You discover that Redis can be used for rate limiting and distributed locks; hence, you practice in your project and grasp the relevant common topics. Subsequently, you find that when Redis memory usage is insufficient, Redis Cluster can be utilized to solve the problem, leading you to practice that and understand its common topics as well.

**Always remember that your main goal is to understand and remember key terms, not to memorize word for word. That approach is pointless! It's the least efficient and provides minimal benefit!**

Also, be sure to engage in some "intelligent shortcuts." Don’t simply memorize common topics; many technological solutions have multiple implementations, such as distributed IDs, distributed locks, and idempotent design. Remembering every possible solution isn't realistic; instead, focus on recalling the implementation used in your project and the reasons behind choosing that approach. Of course, it's advisable to have a basic understanding of other solutions so you can compare them with your chosen one.

To test your understanding or reinforce your memory, writing a blog or explaining the concepts to someone else can be a good strategy.

Moreover, during your preparation of common topics, I strongly recommend spending a few hours reflecting on your resume (particularly the project experience section) to consider areas that may be probed deeply and framing your thoughts as potential interview questions. After interviews, revisit the interview experience to refine and supplement your previously organized questions. This process is incredibly useful for familiarizing yourself with your resume (especially the project experience) in greater depth. It’s essential to dedicate time to thoroughly understand and articulate these questions. You can refer to [Common Java Interview Questions Summary (2024 Edition)](https://t.zsxq.com/0eRq7EJPy) to expand based on your project experience!

Finally, students preparing for technical interviews should regularly review (self-testing is highly effective), otherwise, you will indeed forget the material.
